And then start recording. Then should I just ask you the questions. Yes. Okay, good.
recording.
Okay, good, good life.
Hi.
This is an interview to study the how, collaboration, remote collaboration affects remote meetings.
So I'll start off with a list of around 14 questions and you'll have to answer them a little subjectively, so that we are rich on data.
Okay, so the first one. So tell us a bit about the last meeting, you had with a collaborator from your team.
Okay, so I lost my mighty such a major event, I'd say.
Wednesday. Wednesday.
And then, like what kind of things do you want to know, like I met her on Wednesday for about two hours.
And then we worked on coding of data. Yeah, so what was like the main purpose of the meeting, and
the main purpose would be to qualitatively code, some discussions from mailing lists of Apache projects, big projects. Okay.
Good.
Okay, so did this meeting go as planned.
Yeah, I did the objectives of the meeting met.
Yeah, we were trying to get as much of coding as possible because it takes quite a lot of time. So we did not do a full two hours because he got super tired by the end of like one or 30 minutes.
Okay, and then we stopped. Select and do as much as we thought we could.
Okay, so do you think the stopping in between broke your flow of thought or whatever the flows.
Not really smell.
Oh, when we as coding data, it does take a lot of, like we have to continuously think so.
When we do take a break.
Stop this noise.
It's finally.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, so whenever we do like take a break, it's more like a refresher, so they can come back and start again. It's not exactly the kind of like the way you would do it in a physical environment.
Yeah, just go take a walk and come back and come back.
Okay.
So according to you work the objectives of the meeting satisfied.
Oh, yeah, I would say so.
Do you have your objectives planned before the meeting.
In order for the collaboration to go more smoothly, or do you guys kind of build upon ideas as you go into the meeting. No, we always have a fixed agenda of what we are doing.
And since it's sort of my project that she's working on. So I have to decide on the agenda items based on how much of work I need to be done with by the end of the week.
OK, cool.
So the next question is, what communication channels do you most frequently use
email and messaging video, audio.
So these are kind of the most frequently used ones.
Yeah, so we do not use emails we do Slack, or
slack or zoom. Is there a reason why you choose Slack, or like slack specifically if just like my research group is a slack. So pretty.
Yeah. Okay, so they're pretty active there. So that's what we got used to.
Okay, so just because that's the most available thing. And do you guys find yourself using teams.
Microsoft Teams No, no, we always use zoom. And like we have our zoom rooms pinned in the Slack channel. Okay.
And then whenever we want to just hop on a meeting with his take on that like we do not on this keep going back and changing slack kind of being live like if you go to the, go into the details of how slack functions.
There are some things which are like kind of a little tricky to figure out like replying the specific comments, or probably there or something because I had myself experience, kind of those things.
So, do you think those are kind of those kind of block your flow.
Everything remotely.
I've been using Skype for over a year now so in the beginning, I did have issues like I didn't know what a slack bot was and I'm looking at slack right now.
And then, I didn't know how to, like, I don't know what I still don't know what add apps do like what am I adding, etc.
But, um, yeah like right now I don't see a point because it's, it's just like messaging for me just on my computer messaging.
Okay, moving on to the next question. What tools, did you use during this meeting, what do you prefer I think you answered this one unknown so in this meeting I used access di.
Okay, one second. Tools meaning. Okay, good. Atlas, the atlas.tv and put it under.
Stop.
Okay.
Is this a software you guys commonly use yeah this is a software that we use for qualitative coding. Okay, cool.
Okay, so how much time did you spend on collaborating collaborative meetings last week. And can you walk me through one of those meetings, what did you discuss how many people were involved.
How many projects were discuss what communication channels you used.
Okay, at this point, I forgot the first question.
So, remind me of a time when you collaboratively met with people to like basically a scenario where you actually met with somebody. And what did you do, what did you guys discuss.
Okay.
And over the, over the week. you are asking me how many meetings I did.
Is that was that a question I was asking you about like one scenario where you met and, like, maybe you could tell me the last scenario you met with your collaborators.
And this was something I met with them.
Today morning. Okay.
Today morning. I met with them at 10am, and then we were basically doing a code said validation.
So like the accuracy of stuff that we're working on.
So, we make a court set out of that. And then we need to work with experts to sort of validate, whatever we're doing is correct or not.
Okay. And how many people were involved in this meeting. So, in this it was for people.
Okay, it was for people.
Do you think, have you met with collaborators, more than like 10 or something at a time.
Well then, I would think so. So my, my Monday.
By Monday 11am meetings and my Friday 1pm meeting about a 14 people will notice any differences between having like only for collaborators over a meeting, and having more than 10 collaborators over a meeting our those kind of different in your case.
So whenever it is 10 people or more than 10 people we tend to see something like we go around the table, and then everybody gives their updates, stand up and then daily stand up anything.
No, it's not a daily stand up thing it's like you could say a weekly stand up thing but then we all work on different projects, which has. Let's say, for a ti for example in this class, says with every project guru had to given give a summary of what
they did this week. Okay.
Something like that.
It's informal, but we first do that. And then we each go to a breakout rooms. If anybody needs to talk to anybody else. Okay.
Yeah, and that's how we do this. So it's basically a level overview. Yeah, high level overview view and then it sort of anyway comes down to three or four people meetings.
Okay, and those three or four people meetings are kind of more intimate.
Oh, yes and no. So I don't know what you mean by intimate.
Meaning, use Be alert you are able to collaborate more effectively. In those four or five member group meetings.
Yes, definitely. So now, with 10 people it's a lot more chaotic and then it sort of also decrease people's time because like always 10 people are not chiming in into one thing unless it's like an IRB thing, and then everybody wants has to do something
about it.
So
I would say I would say the four or five people meeting is better, like, two is even better, because then you get all your answer questions answered. Okay.
Okay, so basically what I'm observing as a trend line, you would say is like less than number of people.
The more physical close to physical communication and becomes.
Yes.
Yeah, but I wouldn't say it's better communication because that depends on maybe exaggerate the number and kind of extrapolate it to like 50 guys.
It won't be as effective maybe like.
It won't be as effective. Yeah. Okay, so Okay, the next question.
If people are not having the videos on.
Does that bother you, or do you see anyone being bothered by that.
I don't do it, but I am definitely distracted where I don't have my video on, like I just I just keep checking my phone, and like indoors passes or even during meetings.
I do get distracted if I do not have my video on and I know that nobody's watching me.
Okay, so, do you think that might be affecting affecting the productivity of the group as a whole.
Okay.
Okay, cool.
Next question on Did you feel that having video on all the time is necessary, or, like, the entire entirety of the meeting, or you can have periods of times where you have your video of.
I also like in the early in the morning I don't own any way to see my morning phase.
And then I will not have my video on deck I'm more comfortable recording my video on, because then in the morning and I don't have too many things to think of like if you have to participate in the meeting and also, you know.
Yeah, Alex Do you can they make sure you're looking okay and like, okay, no good. So, that is one point where I'm comfortable with the video off ok ok so the next question.
How did you feel about individual contributions. During the meetings you've had before.
With your collaborators, like, On the basis of everybody's individual contribution.
Are they equal. The skewed are.
So, in my meetings. I feel like we have all kinds of collaborative like there is, there would be some professors, like let's say no meeting or five people that will be two professors to PhD students and one undergraduate student.
So, the contributions are definitely buried.
So, the undergraduate student, we sort of give them.
Like easier.
Things to do like the metal fingers on a paper like I'm just talking about a paper submission thing that we were doing recently. So like the undergraduate students she was responsible for fixing figures.
I, me and other people to read we were responsible for writing down things. So like we were writing paragraphs and then our advisors, they were discussing what the story of the people should be like an F like give me should be writing this story or that
story. So it's three levels of different things.
Okay.
So okay.
The next question. What do you think about team members being able to express themselves and speak up about their opinions. During the meeting, like, and does everybody get a fair chance, do you think that some people are left out.
I've seen people who are like, shy, would not like want to speak up as not probably use the chat feature on zoom, would they probably use the chat feature on zoom.
Okay, so okay so this remote collaboration thing kind of has the shy people being more shy, kind of thing, like as compared to some physical communication.
I see so i think i think it sort of has an effect when you like.
Like, people are talking here in a zoom meeting and, like for example in this meeting, I don't see that his picture here like a video is not on. So, if she does want to see something.
So, we will not be able to understand and she will have to make that whole effort herself, without making any gestures. Okay, so I would say not being able to make gestures with, like, because of the video being on would be okay.
Difficult like. It happens quite a lot of times if I advisors when I'm like when they are speaking and I have a question. And I would like something I do some, some weird gesture so that like somebody catches me up on it and they're like okay, go on,
say like don't, it's okay to interrupt.
You know, so do you feel that, just as a follow up to this day feel that less of body language is captured. While remote collaborating.
And that has an effect on how you might interpret or perceive the other person.
I think it would be different. Definitely but for me it has been very.
Okay, I don't I don't get to perceive anything it's like almost feels like talking to a robot. Okay.
The next question.
Did you and your team, join your last meeting on time. If not, why not. And does it happen often.
So how are you guys on in collaborating in terms of punctuality being on time stuff, most of us are usually on time, except for like one or two people who are like too busy or people who are like still in another meeting and then they have to come and
Russian come. Okay. And do you guys find yourself.
Like, while you guys are waiting, do you guys find yourself just kept you yourself on mute. Not talking.
And, or do you guys have discussions, irrespective of the busier people not being there.
In most of my meetings, I would say we still keep talking. If there are enough people. But in certain cases like for example we have three people for like a group meeting.
And then one of the courses to take it's a vital to know her opinion on our stuff. So we just say that, oh let's just wait for her to join, and then we'll meet them uteruses and like to stay there.
Okay.
Good. that's interesting.
The next question. Okay, so do you think remotely collaborating affects the task efficiency of individual members.
We have you seen people underperform or over perform.
For example, as you mentioned in your earlier question that if your videos of, you feel that you are distracted and you might not perform as much.
Yeah, so definitely taken students for classes for meetings I can see that.
Yeah, for meetings.
I can see that. Sometimes you know people. So now, people do not really have to be like you know officials in an official setting for a meeting. They can be anywhere and like, I don't know, like, just anywhere even be hanging out with their friends and
then be on a meeting right. So, in that case, for sure I feel it affects efficiency because we're not there. Yeah.
And then, if, if the work is based on how much of concentration, you need to have. Then I feel it really does affect all quite a lot.
And does this do you find this affecting the levels of trust you have amongst a group members who are collaborating remotely.
I tell you.
Okay.
Just to extrapolate on this. How,
how welcoming, are you have a stranger joining a collaborative meeting, like,
as we're, like, as properly as you would in a physical communication environment. So, stranger collaborating, like a stranger joining the meeting as a collaborator or like for example you have like a new member joining your team and your professor tells
you that she's a part of your research thing going on. Okay, I think, I think it's more interactive than when a new person has joined because like, it's like, it breaks the monotony of it.
meeting recently, like join our group recently and she has bags, as decorations on her wall. So she has so many bags.
Like, it looks like decor.
So, you know, it's fun. Good.
Okay, the last question.
Last question is, do you have anything specific or any specific incident, you encounter during remote collaboration which you would like to share with me, have anything really specific, you would like to mention
to the process of giving answers to this interview.
Yeah, I can see that
the challenges that we face right so quite a couple of times. Zoom screen sharing.
And then like whatever is we're doing a for example zoom even recording, sometimes doesn't really work out as we think it would.
And like these calls like random challenges that we will not like, okay. So, for example, once I recorded a meeting and then it was supposed to be recording my audio.
But then, since I had been your phone on it was using the microphone and it was capturing the sound my room and not what I was listening to. So basically I recorded a video but I did not get anything out of it.
So, technical difficulties kind of thing. Yeah. And do you feel these technical difficulties quite often like, for example, people not being on mute.
Or maybe you don't want something you please press the wrong button, which caused you to do something, which was an unintentional or something.
Yeah, quite a lot of times. So with that, when I'm sharing screen and I'm also like doing like using Google Docs and Google Sheet.
And then it just freezes don't go with your faces and then I'm just stuck somewhere.